docs: Devcontainers-cli enhancement (#2548)
zmkfirmware/zmk: docs/docs/development/local-toolchain/setup/container.mdx

        {label: 'Podman', value: 'podman'}
      ]}>
  <TabItem value="vsCode">
    :::note
    This approach is documented for
    [VS Code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode) not
    [Code OSS](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/Differences-between-the-repository-and-Visual-Studio-Code).
    :::

    1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
       for your operating system.
    2. Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
    3. Install the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cli">
    1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
       for your operating system.
    2. Install the [Dev Container CLI](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli).
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="podman">
    1. Install Podman for your operating system:
        - [Podman CLI](https://podman.io/docs/installation)
        - [Podman Desktop](https://podman-desktop.io/docs/installation)

    :::warning
    Please follow the installation instructions carefully. If you do not have

>     an working **Podman machine**, executing the commands below won't be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a working **Podman machine**, executing the commands below won't be
```

    [VS Code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode) not
    [Code OSS](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/Differences-between-the-repository-and-Visual-Studio-Code).
    :::

    1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
       for your operating system.
    2. Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
    3. Install the [Remote - Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers).

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="cli">
    1. Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
       for your operating system.
    2. Install the [Dev Container CLI](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli).
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="podman">
    1. Install Podman for your operating system:
        - [Podman CLI](https://podman.io/docs/installation)
        - [Podman Desktop](https://podman-desktop.io/docs/installation)

    :::warning
    Please follow the installation instructions carefully. If you do not have
    an working **Podman machine**, executing the commands below won't be
    possible.
    :::

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Creating Volumes

> In case you have a `zmk-config` or want to build with additional modules, it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To build from a `zmk-config` or with additional modules, it is
```

necessary to first make them available by creating volumes.

<Tabs
  groupId="container"
  defaultValue="vsCode"
  values={[
    { label: "Docker", value: "vsCode" },
    { label: "Podman", value: "podman" },
  ]}
>
  <TabItem value="vsCode">
    When setting up the container, either using
    [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or the
    [Dev Container CLI](https://github.com/devcontainers/cli), the volumes will
    automatically be mounted.

    #### Zmk-Config
    ```sh
    docker volume create --driver local -o o=bind -o type=none \
      -o device="/absolute/path/to/zmk-config/" zmk-config
    ```

    #### Modules
    ```sh
    docker volume create --driver local -o o=bind -o type=none \
      -o device="/absolute/path/to/zmk-modules/parent/" zmk-modules
    ```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="podman">
    #### Zmk-Config
    ```sh
    podman volume create --driver local -o o=bind -o type=none \
     -o device="/absolute/path/to/zmk-config/" zmk-config
    ```

    #### Modules
    ```sh
    podman volume create --driver local -o o=bind -o type=none \
      -o device="/absolute/path/to/zmk-modules/parent/" zmk-modules
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> :::tip
> Once this is done, you can refer to the `zmk-config` with
> `/workspace/zmk-config` and `/workspace/zmk-modules` to the modules instead of
> using their full path like it is shown in the
> [build commands](../build-flash.mdx), since these are the locations they were
> mounted to in the container.
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once this is done, you can refer to the `zmk-config` with
`/workspace/zmk-config` and `/workspace/zmk-modules` to the modules instead of
using their full path like it is shown in the
[build commands](../build-flash.mdx), since these are the locations they were
mounted to in the container.
```
Box fatigue, I think this works fine as plaintext.

  <TabItem value="podman">
    First, make sure that Podman is installed by running:

    ```sh
    podman --version
    ```

    Since Podman is largely compatible with Docker, it is possible to use the
    Dockerfile provided for use with Dev Containers for building a container
    image.

    ```sh
    podman build -t <container-name> -f Dockerfile </path/to/.devcontainer>
    ```

    Once this is done, the container can be started with the `podman run`
    command. Depending on which volumes you are using, you might have to remove
    mounting options.

    ```sh
    podman run -it --rm \
      --security-opt label=disable \
      --workdir /workspaces/zmk \
      -v /path/to/zmk:/workspaces/zmk \
      -v /path/to/zmk-config:/workspaces/zmk-config \   # Removeable
      -v /path/to/zmk-modules:/workspaces/zmk-modules \ # Removeable
      -p 3000:3000 \
      <container-name> /bin/bash
    ```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Configure Zephyr Workspace

:::caution
The following step and any future [build commands](../build-flash.mdx) must be
executed from the command line _inside_ the container.
:::

```sh
west init -l app/ # Initialization
west update       # Update modules
```

> :::tip
> This step pulls down quite a bit of tooling, be patient!
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
We've discussed getting rid of this box anyway, since it's not *that* slow.

> :::note
> If you are using a Docker-based approach, you have to restart the container at
> this point. Stopping it is possible with these commands.
> 
> ```sh
> docker ps                    # List containers
> docker stop "<container-id>" # Stop the container
> ```
> 
> :::

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
If you are using a Docker-based approach, you have to restart the container at
this point. Stopping it is possible with these commands.

```sh
docker ps                    # List containers
docker stop "<container-id>" # Stop the container
```
````
Box fatigue.
